In this chapter, we're going to learn how
to handle errors that occur in Python
programs.
These errors are also called exceptions.
In fact, that's the more correct name.
Exceptions occur when something in a
program goes wrong.
The two examples I'm going to show in this
lesson
are when you try to divide a number by
zero.
And when you try to open a file that
doesn't exist.
But there are many other exceptions.
But we wanna distinguish exceptions from
other types of errors such as when your
entering your code and you type the name
of a function such as Print incorrectly.
That's not really an exception, that's
just a typographical error.
The types of exceptions that we want to
discuss in
this chapter occur when the program's
running, or at run time.
So, let's look at a couple of examples for
this first lesson.
We're gonna create a program called
accept.py.
So the first thing I wanna do is
demonstrate the divide by zero exception.
So let's prompt the user to enter a couple
of numbers.
Then we might say, quotient is
equal to numerator, numerator divided by
denominator.
And we can print the quotient.
So, let's save the program.
We'll run it.
So, we'll do 12 and 2.
And that's six.
Let's run it again.
This time we'll enter 12 and 0.
And here we get an exception,
ZeroDivisionError: division by zero.
So, this exception was thrown by the
program when we entered zero for a
denominator.
What we're going to learn in this chapter
is how
to recognize this error and keep the
program from crashing.
Cuz that's the last thing you want your
programs
to do when someone else is using them is
to have it crash and take you back all
the way out of the program to the
operating system.
Alright, let's look at one more example.
Comment out this code.
And we'll do a very simple one.
It's a one liner.
We'll try to open a file that doesn't
exist or open it to read.
We'll save.
Come back to the operating system.
And
here we get an IO error, No such file or
directory: 'blah.txt'.
So that's another example of an exception
that can be
handled inside the program so that the
program doesn't crash.
So with that, we're ready to move to the
next lesson where we're going to
look at the first way to handle exceptions
and that's using something called a
tri-accept statement.